JSE-listed coal exploration, development and mining company MC Mining has announced the appointment of Yi Christine He as nonexecutive director. She has a bachelor’s degree in English literature from Sichuan University and more than 20 years’ experience at senior management level. Her broad commercial experience includes, among others, the financing, development and execution of large construction and mining projects. She is also general training company Dendocept MD and ultimate beneficial owner, along with her spouse. She is also a 7.1% shareholder of MC Mining and holds a further 2.2% in her personal capacity. She will join the board as a shareholder nominee of the Dendocept Consortium, which collectively holds 23.9% of MC Mining’s issued share capital. Further, MC Mining has also appointed Julian Hoskin as independent nonexecutive director. Hoskin is a qualified mining engineer and holds a Master of Applied Science, majoring in mining geomechanics, as well as MBA. During his 38 years working as a professional engineer, Hoskin has been exposed to resource evaluation and project delivery and has managed mining operations, as well as the construction of metallurgical and thermal coal mines and ports. Hoskin has developed numerous mining projects in Australia, driving them up the value curve from exploration to feasibility stage and ultimately, construction of the coal mine. He has extensive mine management experience and has also optimised established mines. Meanwhile, MC Mining also announced the immediate resignation of trading company Haohua Energy International Hong Kong shareholder representative director Junchao Liu, who served on the board since December 2021. “I . . . welcome the new directors and look forward to their contributions toward MC Mining achieving its objectives and vision. Their combined expertise will assist in the development of the Makhado project, the three Greater Soutpansberg projects, and delivering further shareholder value from the company’s operating Uitkomst colliery and Vele Aluwani colliery,” MC Mining chairperson Nhlanhla Nene said.