JOHANNESBURG (miningweekly.com) – Precious and green metals mining company Sibanye-Stillwater said on Thursday that it had completed consultations to minimise job losses in restructuring its South Africa gold operations. The consultation took place under Section 189A (S189) of the Labour Relations Act, 66 of 1995, amid ongoing financial losses at the Beatrix 4 gold mine shaft in the Free State, and the impact of depleting surface mineral reserves to the Kloof 1 gold plant in Gauteng. Sibanye-Stillwater stated in a release to Mining Weekly that constructive consultations were held with affected stakeholders, with various avoidance measures mitigating possible retrenchments and minimising job losses amid the potential cessation or downscaling of operations and associated services at the Beatrix 4 shaft and the Kloof 1 plant. A total of 2 314 employees were affected, with up to 1 959 employees potentially facing retrenchment. “Pleasingly, this outcome has been avoided through the S189 consultation process with agreed and implemented avoidance measures resulting in 1 136 employees accepting transfer opportunities to available positions at other group operations in the South Africa region; 552 employees being granted voluntary separation or early retirement packages; and natural attrition accounting for 103 less affected employees. “Regrettably, 168 employees could not be accommodated, or chose not to participate in the agreed avoidance measures, and as such will be retrenched. This number includes 39 learners who will be given the opportunity to complete their training, as well as 59 employees who declined a reasonable alternative position within the company. “While the decision to close or restructure operations is never taken lightly, the closure of the end of life, and loss making operations are necessary to ensure sustainability for the remainder of the business,” said Sibanye-Stillwater CEO Neal Froneman. “Through constructive and co-operative engagement we have been able to preserve the vast majority of jobs initially at risk. We acknowledge and thank all stakeholders for their constructive engagement,” Froneman added.