Platinum-group metals (PGMs) miner Impala Rustenburg, part of JSE-listed Impala Platinum (Implats), invested more than R40-million to expand the facilities areas at its 16 Shaft operation, which was completed in partnership with women-owned small, medium-sized and microenterprise Mmakgoge Group, from Kanana. The project involved at least 110 employees on site, and the ad hoc use of local subcontractors exclusively from local communities. Local subcontractors from mine-host communities were also employed for the project, further benefitting Impala Rustenburg’s communities. The tender selection criteria required the successful company to be a local, women-owned business, and with significant industry experience. The expansion is to accommodate the company's growth over the past few years, which has seen an additional 2 000 people employed by the PGMs producer, Impala Rustenburg said. The expansion includes modern offices, a change house and lamp room facilities, which will contribute to improving 16 Shaft’s morale, culture, efficiency and productivity. “We are excited to announce the opening of our new facilities at 16 Shaft. This investment in our operations improves our efficiency and created opportunities for the communities around us. We remain committed to providing safe, sustainable and value-adding mining practices while also investing in the local business community to ultimately create a better future for all our stakeholders,” said Impala Rustenburg CE Mark Munroe. “We were thrilled to be a part of this project with Impala Rustenburg. The opportunity allowed us to showcase our skills, capacity and quality of work. It is also positive that Impala is invested in providing opportunities that allow for gender diversity and women empowerment, and I commend the company for that,” said Mmakgoge Group director Kgomotso Motuku. Impala Rustenburg's investment in the new 16 Shaft facilities underscores its commitment to responsible mining practices and supporting local communities. In the face of large-scale unemployment in Rustenburg and throughout South Africa, Impala Rustenburg’s continued growth is a positive development. The company is committed to building a sustainable future for the mining industry in South Africa, and ensuring continued investment in its local business community, it said. Rustenburg mayor Sheila Mabale-Huma said there were many lessons to be learnt from Impala Rustenburg, including that organisations could not expect high levels of productivity if they did not take care of their workers. “This new facility is testament to Impala’s focus on ensuring that workers are happy. I am impressed by Impala’s wall of fame, which motivates employees to come to work, work hard and do well. I am equally impressed with Impala’s emphasis on ensuring that local communities benefit from procurement and tenders and that a woman in a construction business from a local community was awarded the opportunity to undertake this project,” she added. “We always fight with the mines when our local communities are not afforded an opportunity in this sector. However, it is important to also give credit where it is due, hence, as councillors, we must inform and update our communities about the achievements received from the mining sector as well. “Rustenburg is the economic hub of the North West province because of the mines. We all need to work together as the community of Rustenburg, understanding that we all belong to Rustenburg and we should strive for the best, just as Impala is,” she said.