London-listed Kavango Resources has completed a relogging of drill hole DITDD004 at the Ditau project, in Botswana. The company relogged the hole upon recommendation of Dr Hamid Mumin, who has proposed a possible banded iron formation- (BIF-) hosted lode gold system at the project. The hole in question was drilled to test the i10 Target. Kavango says localised brecciation of the BIF has enhanced permeability, allowing passage of sulphide and gold-nearing fluids and that the previously reported gold assays are seen to coincide with the presence of fine pyrite in the BIF. The association of pyrite with gold, typical in gold deposits, is useful confirmation of some of the characteristics of the Ditau mineralisation. These characteristics will be targeted in the next stage of exploration. Kavango is now developing a working hypothesis that some of the sediments above the BIF may be of Proterozoic age, rather than of the much younger Karoo age sediments. If this is the case, then mineralising fluid flow could also have taken place through these. Proterozoic age BIFs, such as at Ditau, can be associated with lode gold systems. Kavango has identified 24 samples for petrological work under the supervision of Mumin, aimed at further enhancing Kavango’s understanding of the mineralisation style prior to future drilling. The company is also preparing a geophysical survey programme at Ditau, which is likely to include induced polarisation surveys targeting pyrite as a proxy for gold. Kavango has been given permission to also relog two additional drill holes located over the i10 target area, which were drilled by another company. COO Brett Grist says Mumin’s report has highlighted the gold potential at Ditau and proposed a new deposit model. “Relogging of the core has identified a number of features that could be consistent with a new deposit model. We look forward to logging the additional drillholes we have identified over the i10 target at the end of March, and using the results to expand our exploration programme” he adds.