Diversified major BHP has awarded several contracts at its Jansen potash project, in Saskatchewan, to businesses that will help Indigenous people benefit from its presence in the region. The company has awarded Wicehtowak Frontec Services (WFS), a joint venture partnership between ATCO Frontec and George Gordon Developments (GGDL), a multi-year, base contract of C$86-million to provide camp support services at its BHP Jansen Discovery Lodge. BHP's Discovery Lodge, originally designed and built in 2012 by ATCO Structures, features diverse, high-end amenities, and accommodates up to 2 500 workers. WFS will provide management and administration, food services, programming, housekeeping and janitorial, and maintenance work for the facility. The current contract will support about 130 local jobs with 70% planned to be Indigenous. "This contract will help address poverty, as our community will have equitable access to sustainable long-term employment, training and education. We are looking forward to working collaboratively with our partners," said George Gordon First Nation Chief Byron Bitternose. "This award presents incredible opportunities for our Nation members and surrounding communities for employment, skills development, procurement and subcontracting that can be ongoing," added George Gordon Developments CEO Glen Pratt. BHP potash president Simon Thomas noted that the partnership with WFS was an opportunity to create local jobs and training opportunities. The company has opportunity agreements with six First Nations surrounding the Jansen site. BHP has awarded 2Nations Bird, a partnership between TSX-listed Bird Construction, Beardy's and Okemasis Cree Nation's Willow Cree Developments General Partner, and Fishing Lake First Nation's Development Corporation, FLFN Ventures, two contracts for works on the Jansen Stage 1. 2Nations Bird will self-perform concrete foundations work for four main non-process buildings at Jansen, a contract valued at about C$62-million. The partnership was also awarded a three-year site services agreement where 2Nations Bird has responsibility for general site services during the execution of Jansen Stage 1, as well as maintenance of a variety of facilities currently in operation to service the site. The three-year service agreement is valued at over C$110-million. 2Nations Bird has engaged with KDM Constructors, as the designated subcontractor. KDM has been involved with the project with BHP for over seven years, providing contract services for the Jansen site. As a First Nations-owned industrial construction and maintenance service provider, KDM brings together Kawakatoose, Day Star and Muskowekwan Nations along with the Saskatchewan-based SECON Group of Companies. George Gordon Developments, the economic development arm of the George Gordon First Nation, will also be a subcontractor on the site services agreement. "Indigenous and industry partnerships, such as 2Nations Bird Construction, create economic and employment opportunities for our Nation and its members. It allows us to develop capacity, learn from one another, and grow in tandem. More importantly, these types of relationships are critical to advance economic reconciliation which allows us to develop long-term, meaningful and sustainable outcomes," said Beardy’s & Okemasis’ Cree Nation Chief Edwin Ananas. BHP is investing C$7.5-billion to build Jansen Stage 1, which will be one of the world's most sustainable potash mines, located 140 km from Saskatoon. Jansen Stage 1 is expected to produce 4.35-million tonnes a year of potash, with the first production planned for late 2026.