Watch the FULL interview with Western Cape Premier Alan Winde on Polity.org.za Western Cape Premier Alan Winde said following his last meeting with Andre de Ruyter, where the former Eskom CEO painted a bleak picture of South Africa’s energy situation, the province has roped in former Eskom executive Alwie Lester to help tackle the crisis. In an exclusive interview with Polity, Winde said his province already knew in 2022 that the energy crisis would worsen in South Africa by 2023. Plans are already underway to migrate places like Khayelitsha and Atlantis, off Eskom’s grid and onto the City’s grid. The Western Cape plans to inject R1-billion towards energy over the next three years. Discussing newly appointed Electricity Minister Kgosientsho Ramokgopa, Winde said his party has been against the move because there are already two cabinet ministers in the energy sphere. Winde suggested the appointment of an energy expert rather than another minister. However, noting that he has worked with Ramokgopa during the new minister’s previous role as of Head of Investment and Infrastructure, Winde wished him well in his new position. He said he has already spoken with Ramokgopa to schedule a meeting to discuss the Western Cape’s energy plans and how it could benefit other provinces. “I will work with anybody to make sure that we find a better opportunity, system and better energy throughout the province I represent,” Winde stated. While loadshedding is massively impacting the province’s ability to attract investment, the Premier noted that despite the power cuts his province has created 167 000 jobs of the national 169 000 recorded in the last quarter. He stated that the Western Cape is also investing in more infrastructure, compared with Gauteng, which accounts for about 35% of South Africa’s Gross Domestic Product. CRIME AND SAFETY The Premier remains concerned about crime across the country and reiterated his province’s call for Police Minister Bheki Cele to devolve powers to provinces and municipalities. He argues that government should have federal police at a national level while the majority of policing should be at a provincial or local level. The province is concerned that the murder rate is still high with the places with high crime rates such as the Nyanga township have less police deployed. Winde said his province is allocating R2.3-billion a year towards safety and security and 1 300 officers have been deployed to the ten murder hotspots. He notes that through the province’s interventions there is a steady decline in crime but he believes that improved technology is required to fight criminals who are taking advantage of loadshedding across the country. “I am disappointed that we haven’t changed the Police Minister. We need to change the debate on this, we have got to make South Africa safer,” he said. Watch the FULL interview with Western Cape Premier Alan Winde on Polity.org.za