Global geochemical laboratory services provider MSALABS has, so far, maintained the growth momentum it had in 2022, delivering strong operational performances from existing contracts and successfully commissioning a few new laboratories. MSALABS, a subsidiary of London-listed mining services company Capital, is exhibiting at the Prospectors & Developers Association of Canada event this week, where it plans to sign an agreement with Aurora Minerals Group to provide geochemistry services in Kazakhstan. This will be the first time MSALABS does work in this Middle Eastern country. Among the new laboratories commissioned in recent months is a Chrysos PhotonAssay unit as a commercial laboratory in Prince George, Western Canada, which will soon begin processing samples from customers in the region. MSALABS also successfully commissioned a PhotonAssay unit at Barrick Gold’s Kibali mine, in the Democratic Republic of Congo; a mine site laboratory at Shanta Gold’s Singida mine, in Tanzania; and a mine site laboratory at the Bougouni mine, in Mali. The company in July 2022 announced an expanded global partnership with Chrysos Corporation, through which it plans to deploy 21 Chrysos PhotonAssay units across the world by 2025. The PhotonAssay units deliver faster, safer and more accurate gold analysis than traditional technology, the company states. It analyses samples using high-energy X- rays and delivers quantitative results in as little as two minutes, while being more environment friendly. CEO Stuart Thompson says MSALABS has gotten off to a strong start in 2023, which is testament to the strong demand for its services, as well as the hard work of employees to deliver impressive growth. “Announcing new labs across all three of our major regions, further diversification of commodity mix and entry into a new country is indicative of the increasing strength and robustness of MSALABS,” he adds. Thompson notes further that demand for Chrysos PhotonAssay units is solid, with a multitude of major mining companies continuing to run trials and converting to the technology. Capital plans to announce its results for the 2022 financial year on March 16, along with MSALABS’s revenue updates and guidance for 2023.