Mineral processing equipment supplier Multotec Canada has signed an agreement with Siebtechnik to become a distributor of the German company’s range of centrifuge products to the mining, chemicals, water treatment and food industries in Canada. Multotec Canada will expand the Siebtechnik footprint and installation base in Canada by securing new customers and servicing existing ones through the supply of centrifuge solutions to capital projects, as well as the distribution of spare parts. Siebtechnik is the technology centre for the Siebtechnik Tema group. Multotec Canada GM Réjean Foisy says the company will focus on the supply of Siebtechnik products in the mining industry, where Multotec is heavily active, but will also seek to increase uptake of the products in the chemicals and food industries. He adds that the lithium and potash mining sectors are expanding in Canada, and will therefore likely be among the first customers. The agreement, which is effective from January 1, involves Multotec Canada becoming both an exclusive distribution agent to Siebtechnik’s line of centrifuge solutions and a local assistance provider to customers, by leveraging its vast in-house experience. Foisy says Canadian customers will benefit from Multotec Canada’s experience and knowledge of the mining industry, with additional product support initially coming from the Siebtechnik teams in Germany and the US. “Through our existing infrastructure, we are ready to service our Siebtechnik customers in terms of equipment selection, design, installation and commercial capabilities such as quoting, specification and contracts. We are looking to introduce a dedicated service and maintenance team in the near future,” Foisy explains. Notably, for customers who have specifically signed an exclusive agreement, Multotec Canada will provide them access to an agreed range of spares out of two warehouses in Montreal and Edmonton, or the Siebtechnik Tema US facility, ensuring fast access to products. Siebtechnik MD Dr Reinhard Scholtz says Multotec Canada’s well-established relationships with mining and engineering houses in Canada, as well as the company’s experience, expertise and commitment to after-sales service, made the company the preferred choice to partner with. The agreement benefits Multotec Canada in that it provides scope to grow its market share and expand its product portfolio, as it aims to become entrenched in a wide variety of centrifuge products in Canada. Multotec Canada is driving strategic partnerships with customers that are building new facilities, developing brownfield projects or those that are expanding their existing plant capabilities.