Copper producer Copper360 has launched a project to develop a White Paper on inclusion, specifically to measure current levels of inclusion in the mining and resources sector. The intent of the project, according to the company, is not only to troubleshoot inclusivisity but to interrogate potential solutions that could contribute to overcoming hurdles preventing the full integration of genders and people with disabilities into the mining sector. Transformation in the resources sector must be contemplated from a perspective of holistic inclusion, says Copper360 chairperson Shirley Hayes. “Not enough is being done in terms of inclusion, and transformation also means more than redressing injustices of the past. It also means addressing inequalities that people still experience every day, particularly in areas like [the mineral] resources [sector],” she explains, stating that not enough is being done in the sector to ensure inclusion. The White Paper on inclusion will be shaped as a study and headed by former Ms Wheelchair South Africa Tamelyn Bock from Nababeep in the Northern Cape, along with Copper360 environment, social and governance officer Jennifer Barnard. Hayes says the study, which is expected to take several months, will be published in the third quarter of this year. She says all role-players in the resources sector are welcome to join in, extending an open invitation to all who might be interested in contributing. “This is a project that aims to benefit all role-players in the resources sector, from copper producers such as us through to mining giants. We all need to take heed of inclusion on a greater scale than what has been the case until now,” she says. Hayes lists people with physical disabilities as a particular focus. “When I looked at our own infrastructure, I realised that it must be incredibly unfriendly for anyone facing a physical challenge, [whether] visitor or potential employee. And while not every aspect of an industrial operation may be conducive to rehabilitate into a friendlier environment, a lot of it can be,” she says. Hayes believes tolerance and understanding are important touch points of an inclusivity-oriented business, which means working toward a culture of nondiscrimination across the board. “There has been little work done on gender or gender identity in what has traditionally been seen as more of a man’s world. What must happen now is to open up and welcome everyone, of any persuasion, belief or identity, and ensure that equal opportunity in the resources sector extends beyond colour, creed, gender, ability or disability. It is our responsibility to level the playing field,” she says. Hayes believes such a change begins with culture and leadership. She believes the inclusion White Paper will dissect and unpack this. Thereafter, the intent is to implement Bock and Barnard’s findings across Copper360. “I will also agitate the rest of the industry to do the same,” Hayes says.