Independent consulting practice multinational SRK Consulting has appointed Andrew van Zyl MD of SRK Consulting (SA), which is the South African arm of the global SRK network of consulting engineering practices. Van Zyl is also a member of the SRK Global board and executive committee. He stepped into the role of MD from January, taking over from Vis Reddy who completed a term of almost eight years as MD at the end of 2022. Van Zyl joined SRK in 2011, became a partner in the firm in 2015 and was appointed as a director in 2020. “My new role is primarily focused on people, context and strategy, to give SRK’s partners and practices a sounding board and help build the complementary strengths within the company,” he says. SRK Consulting (SA) employs about 300 permanent staff and a number of associate consultants. An important secondary role Van Zyl will fulfil is ensuring integration within the global group and increased collaboration with the balance of the 1 700 staff across the globe. The company is increasingly benefiting from the establishment of niche, specialist technical centres of excellence across the globe. Van Zyl has extensive experience in the mining sector, and initially worked in production and project roles before shifting his focus into strategy, business development and valuation. He also spent several years as a technical adviser to a government committee negotiating a mining convention, as well as rail and mineral terminal concessions. Van Zyl's experience includes valuing metals and minerals assets, including iron-ore, manganese, chrome, copper, coal, gold and the platinum group metals. He is active in industry bodies, including being on the council of the Southern African Institute of Mining and Metallurgy (SAIMM) and as a member of the inaugural SAIMM Environment, Social and Governance and Sustainability committee, and was a past chair of the South African Mineral Asset Valuation Committee. In SRK’s involvement in the field of responsible sourcing of minerals, Van Zyl takes a lead role in SRK’s partnership with the European Union’s Re-Sourcing initiative. This body is funded by the European Commission’s Horizon 2020 programme and draws on SRK’s extensive knowledge of current issues in the mining sector. Further, Van Zyl has presented at a range of conferences, including the Investing in Africa Mining Indaba and the World Association of Mining Lawyers annual conference. “SRK Consulting prides itself on the technical and strategic experience in our ranks, and the way we leverage this to innovate solutions for clients in a wide range of sectors. The future holds exciting prospects as we continue to develop and apply sustainable responses that promote responsible business,” said Van Zyl. His qualifications include a Bachelor of Chemical Engineering from Stellenbosch University and a Master of Commerce in Financial Economics from the University of Johannesburg.