The organiser of the yearly Investing in African Mining Indaba, Hyve Group, reports that this year’s event will see the launch of a three-day InfraTech content platform that will include discussions on innovation in mining technology and how global pandemics and geopolitical realities act as accelerators in technological progress and make supply chains resilient and agile. Taking place in Cape Town from February 6 to 8, the Indaba will cover the latest technology developments that contribute to building and delivering mines of the future. Mining Indaba portfolio director Simon Ford says that, for the first time in 2022, the Indaba hosted a dedicated infrastructure and supply chain forum, bringing together the vital mining supply chain companies and senior mining executives to discuss solutions focussed on environment, social and governance solutions for Africa’s growing mining operations. “Such was the success of that programme that we have integrated it with our technology-focused Mining 2050 stream to create the brand new three-day InfraTech content platform looking at critical aspects of mining infrastructure, technologies and building effective supply chains,” he says. Also, under discussion at InfraTech will be the just energy transition and the push for renewable energy. The increased demand for critical minerals needed in renewable energy solutions will mean a renewed interest in exploration and the need for a holistic lifecycle approach. Speakers will also discuss the future of work and how mining companies are adapting to the new normal while creating vital employment and using technology. Attendees will hear from leading industry experts including BHP Xplor VP Sonia Scarselli, Kumba Iron Ore COO Vijay Kumar, Siemens Southern and Eastern Africa CEO Sabina Dall’Omo, Ivanhoe Mines sustainability VP Jasmine Abrahams, Zanaco CCO Chali Mwefyeni and CGC Consulting & ADAPT Digital Solutions CEO and founder Clive Govender. A key panel discussion, ‘Evolving Infrastructure to Grow the Zambia – DRC Battery Manufacturing Partnership’, will focus on the Zambia-Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) battery manufacturing partnership to establish a battery manufacturing hub in the Copperbelt region. It will explore not only what this great partnership means and how it is progressing, but will also look at the infrastructure and logistics needed to ensure product reaches global markets. The panel will be moderated by the Cobalt Institute responsible sourcing and sustainability head Susannah McLaren and includes speakers such as Zambia Chamber of Mines CEO and Mining Industry Association of Southern Africa president Chilembo Sokwani, Zanaco CCO Chali Mwefyeni, DRC Chamber of Mines CEO Simon Tuma-Waku and DRC Chamber of Mines president Louis Watum. To provide institutions of higher learning with insight into how they can use technological change to close the mining industry’s talent gap, a panel discussion will be held on “How can academia keep up with Exponential Technological Progress”. This panel will weigh in on how academia can work with original equipment manufacturers and mining companies to develop a highly-skilled and motivated workforce and more importantly, make mining attractive to the next generation of professionals. The panel will be moderated by Free State University rector and vice-chancellor Professor Francis Peterson who will glean insights from Minktek CEO Dr Molefi Mutuku, University of Cape Town deputy vice-chancellor Professor Sue Harrison, University of the Witwatersrand vice-chancellor and principal Professor Zeblon Vilakazi and Council for Scientific and Industrial Research CEO Dr Thulani Dlamini.