PERTH (miningweekly.com) – Green hydrogen developer Provaris Energy has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Norway-based hydrogen developer Norwegian Hydrogen AS to collaborate on the development of green hydrogen value chain projects in the Nordics. The MoU provides a framework under which the two companies will undertake a concept design to review identified sites and select a preferred location for hydrogen production for both the domestic and export markets, and undertake a technical and economic review for the production and supply of compressed gaseous green hydrogen to nominated European ports. Provaris said in a statement on Thursday that the scope of the study would include the renewable power supply, production of hydrogen, compression facilities, storage, infrastructure for jetty loading and unloading, Provaris’ H2Neo carrier, and import infrastructure required at identified import locations. Application for suitable funding schemes available through national schemes and the European Union (EU) will also be made. Provaris MD and CEO Martin Carolan told shareholders that the Nordic region offered several advantages that can include low-cost hydro power, proximity to offtake markets and supportive governments committed to supplying hydrogen to Europe. “This collaboration also has strategic alignment with the development timeline of our H2Neo carrier and validation of the increasing interest for our compressed hydrogen transport solution for hydrogen supply into Europe,” he added. The collaboration with Provaris allows Norwegian Hydrogen to accelerate its ambitions for scaling-up volumes of compressed hydrogen from multiple sites across the entire Nordic region for export to the major import hubs in Europe, with Provaris to contribute its experience in the development of compressed green hydrogen export projects, that include the 2.8 GW Tiwi H2 development project in Australia. This collaboration can deliver over time giga-scale quantities of green hydrogen commencing in 2027 and addressing REPowerEU’s ambition to import 10-million tonnes of renewable hydrogen in the EU by 2030. “We are excited to work with Provaris on a solution which will bring green hydrogen to the EU market in a flexible, cost effective and timely manner. The vast experience and diverse capabilities within the combined Provaris and Norwegian Hydrogen team, along with a huge demand for green hydrogen in the EU, makes this a great opportunity for both parties,” said Norwegian Hydrogen CEO Jens Berge. Provaris and Norwegian Hydrogen will focus on identified sites for green hydrogen export, with a short sailing distance to some of the major planned hydrogen import hubs in the Netherlands and Germany. This includes sites in Norway, where the government recently announced its agreement with German counterparts for the export of hydrogen. Provaris said on Thursday that potential import hubs in the UK could have equivalent, and advantageous proximity to source locations. At these short distances, Provaris’ proprietary compressed hydrogen H2Neo carrier has demonstrated great cost competitiveness compared to alternative transportation, storage and conversion vectors of hydrogen. The scope of the MoU will focus on the development of the full value chain, including production, maritime transportation and distribution to offtakers.