PERTH (miningweekly.com) – Iron-ore major and green energy developer Fortescue has taken delivery of Australia’s first prototype battery system designed for a zero-emissions battery electric mining haul truck being developed with Liebherr. The state-of-the-art 1.4 MWh prototype power system sets the pace for ground-breaking innovation in heavy industry and is a bespoke design intended for integration into a 240-t mining haul truck. The battery will be integral to Fortescue’s $6.2-billion decarbonisation strategy to help eliminate fossil fuels from its terrestrial iron-ore operations, which includes replacing its existing diesel-fuelled fleet with battery electric and green hydrogen-powered haul trucks. A team of 50 engineers and technicians from WAE Technologies is responsible for developing the pioneering power system, which weighs 15 t, measures 3.6 m long, 1.6 m wide and 2.4 m high, and is made up of eight sub-packs, each with 36 modules, all individually cooled and each with its own battery management system. Fortescue said in a statement on Monday that the batter was completed in record time and marks several firsts for an electric mining haul truck battery, with energy storage of 1.4MWH, the ability to fast-charge in 30 minutes and capacity to regenerate power as it drives downhill. “WAE and Fortescue are working together to seek to decarbonise faster and more effectively than any other major industrial company in the world,” Fortescue Future Industries CEO Mark Hutchinson says. “The battery system, designed for our zero-emission battery electric mining haul trucks is an important part of our strategy to reach real zero terrestrial emissions (Scope 1 and 2) across our iron operations by 2030. “WAE’s battery expertise complements FFI’s green hydrogen projects and cements Fortescue as a leader in the technologies needed for the green energy transition.” The battery has now arrived at Fortescue’s workshop in Perth, Western Australia, and will be assembled and installed, before it is transported to the Pilbara for world-leading testing on site in 2023. WAE Technologies CEO Craig Wilson says the delivery marks the latest milestone in the rapid development of state-of-the-art zero-emission technology for Fortescue’s mining trucks. “This high-performance power system not only boasts the highest energy storage of its kind, but will also be the first to offer 30-minute fast charging.” “This system is the first of many technologies that can help enable Fortescue to realise its industry leading 2030 net-zero target. Powered solely by renewable energy, it will help prevent enormous amounts of fossil fuel from being used in the mining industry, with the goal to not compromise the vehicle’s load capacity. This is an inspiring example of what can be achieved combining Fortescue’s pioneering green energy vision for its global vehicles and WAE’s extensive expertise in advanced batteries.” The UK-based WAE Technologies was acquired by Fortescue last year in a £164-million deal. Fortescue last year also announced a partnership with Liebherr for the development of green mining haul trucks, which will be integrated with the zero emissions power system technologies developed by WAE. Under the partnership, Fortescue will purchase a fleet of 120 haul trucks from Liebherr, with delivery aligned to its fleet replacement and sustaining capital expenditure forecast. The commitment represents approximately 45% of the current haul truck fleet at Fortescue’s operations. Truck haulage consumed approximately 200-million litres of diesel in 2021 and accounted for 26% of Fortescue’s Scope 1 emissions.