Australian space company Fleet Space Technologies has announced the first deployment of its ExoSphere satellite-based mineral exploration system in Africa, in partnership with Resonance Frequency Exploration Group (RFEG), which is based in the US but also has operations in Accra, Ghana. Under a licensing and technology cooperation agreement finalised in December, Fleet Space will supply its Geode portable sensors, which use ambient noise tomography to collect subsurface data. This data is then beamed to the ExoSphere constellation of low earth orbit satellites and then relayed to computers that use intelligent data processing to generate detailed three-dimensional subsurface maps. Unlike traditional prospecting methods, which can take months or years to complete, the entire process takes only days or weeks, Fleet Space acclaims. ExoSphere brings a new dimension to the ongoing mineral resource estimate projects RFEG is conducting, in particular in the Oti region of Ghana. Under the auspices of the Ghana Geological Survey Authority, with implementation by RFEG’s team, ExoSphere will complement RFEG’s own XPLR remote-sensing mapping-analysis technology. This is achieved by cross-referencing the data from both sources, which is said to considerably increase the likelihood of finding new mineral deposits more quickly and with much greater accuracy. ExoSphere’s Geodes are light enough to be carried by one team member, which is posited to make them ideal for use in challenging and inaccessible terrain. They are also noted to be entirely non-invasive, eliminating the need for explosives or vibrating trucks to collect subsurface seismic data. This is said to considerably reduce costs, logistical issues and environmental disturbance. The accuracy of the combined data collection and analysis by ExoSphere and RFEG’s systems also means, for mining operators, that drilling can be streamlined to areas where considerable deposits are known to exist, Fleet Space points out. RFEG selected Fleet Space as its technical partner after a global search. The company is seeking to help current and prospective clients in the US, Africa, and Central and South America take a more tech-forward, eco-conscious approach to better ascertain site viability and increase operating efficiencies. In particular, it is focusing on using satellite-based image processing technologies analysed by proprietary algorithms to determine a prospective site’s viability before embarking on traditional geophysical work.