PERTH (miningweekly.com) – The Queensland Resources Council (QRC) has again called on the state government to repeal its increased coal royalty rates introduced last year. It pointed to analysis from the Federal Treasury, which found that the resources sector was responsible for significant job opportunities in the state, particularly for Queenslanders born in the 1960s and 1970s. “This report confirms that the biggest beneficiaries of our resources sector are the everyday Queenslanders who have gained well-paid jobs and careers that have set them and their families on the path to a brighter future,” QRC CEO Ian Macfarlane said. “The data shows that since the 2010s, the resources industry has helped Queensland lead the way, along with Western Australia, in lifting people out of disadvantage. “While it’s encouraging to hear the Federal Treasurer talk about the importance of the resources sector to Queensland's future, he needs to talk to his state counterpart to ensure our industry can continue to grow by reconsidering the coal royalty tax increase,” Macfarlane said. “The jobs of over 450 000 Queenslanders are currently supported by the resources sector, but if we want that to continue, we need companies to invest in the big, multi-decade projects that will provide thousands of jobs. “We are already seeing companies like BHP and Peabody indicating they will put a hold on future project investment in Queensland as a result of the royalty hike, which was also a factor in Glencore's decision not to proceed with its Valeria mine,” Macfarlane said. “The Queensland government cannot expect companies to carry the enormous capital risks required to provide long-term jobs and business opportunities, when the rules can change without notice. “This goes beyond just the coal industry but right across the resources sector, including critical minerals projects that are the key to a decarbonised future.” The state government last year increased the coal royalty rates to 20% for prices above A$175/t, 30% for prices above A$225/t, and a 40% tier that would apply when prices exceed A$300/t. “I would also call on the Federal Treasurer to re-think the Australian government’s intervention in the coal and gas markets through price caps and price setting mechanisms. Stable state and federal policies around the development of Australia's resources have delivered generations of life-changing opportunities to get ahead,” Macfarlane said. “If future generations of Queenslanders are to enjoy similar opportunities, governments must reconsider policies that bring a stop to the investment that creates the rewarding jobs they’re looking for.”