Mineral research organisation Mintek is considering establishing a local presence in Saudi Arabia so that it can provide prompt and accessible service to customers and empower the mining sector. A Mintek delegation led by CEO Dr Molefi Motuku visited the Future Minerals Forum recently held in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, to promote the organisation’s capabilities and expand markets for Mintek technologies in the Arabian Peninsula and globally. The forum was held over two days and comprised of panel sessions discussing the future potential of mining in Africa, and West and Central Asia, as well as a local and international exhibition. Speaking during a panel session on Country Spotlight – South Africa Part 2: Mining for the Future, Motuku highlighted Mintek's expertise in the beneficiation of critical minerals as well as past projects the organisation had conducted along the mineral value chain on a global scale. “Mintek has very strong expertise in smelting, extractive metallurgy and analytical testing which are key to the beneficiation of critical minerals,” he acclaimed. Motuku added that South Africa was also home to value-added opportunities in lithium-ion, vanadium, hydrogen, catalysts and fuel cell production, which was said to provide great investment opportunities. The exhibition provided an opportunity for Mintek to meet and collaborate with key companies in exploration, mining and processing to discuss capabilities covering nearly all mineral commodities across the integrated value chain. The exhibition by Mintek highlighted key services in mineralogical characterisation, analytical testing, and certified reference materials which are noted as vital for exploration and the mining value chain. Mintek’s certified reference materials, known as SARMs, are sold to laboratories globally to confirm the accuracy of a wide range of analytical methods, justify analytical results, and develop new analytical methods. The visit to Saudi Arabia follows the recent signing of two memorandums of understanding between Saudi Arabia and South Africa. The alliances are between Mintek and the Saudi Geological Survey, and Rasi Investment Group.