JOHANNESBURG (miningweekly.com) – Enabling South Africa to become a green hydrogen centre through government support is highlighted in the January 8 Statement 2023 of the National Executive Committee (NEC) of the African National Congress (ANC). "The ANC recognises important work in the Hydrogen Roadmap and directs government to implement further supportive policy measures and actions to enable South Africa to become a green hydrogen centre," the NEC's 22-page ‘Year of Decisive Action’ document states. Foreseen are important new green manufacturing opportunities in the development of rare earths and platinum-group metals, and directs government to expand incentives to the electric vehicle manufacturing industry to accelerate transition from the internal combustion engine. Published to mark the ANC’s 111th anniversary, the document also prioritises a resolution of the loadshedding crisis, improved infrastructure maintenance, and a strengthening of the fight against crime and corruption. Government is called on to give precedence to infrastructure investment over other expenditure items and, in collaboration with business, to single out significant economy-growing and bankable infrastructure projects for urgent implementation. Regarding the Fourth Industrial Revolution, the NEC’s January 8 Statement 2023 outlines that new digital technologies such as artificial intelligence, big data and machine learning can provide a platform for economic development that can expand job creation and self-employment, improve production processes, and enhance the delivery of public services such as health care, education and community safety. In agriculture, it describes the acceleration of the farmer support production units as critical stepping stones towards  revitalising the rural economy and applauds the agriculture and agribusiness masterplan as a positive social compact for the transformation of and inclusive participation in the sector. In law enforcement, urgent steps are wanted to enhance the crime-fighting capacity of law enforcement agencies by increasing the number of police personnel to match the population increase, in line with international norms. “Urgent steps must also be taken to rebuild the capacity of law enforcement agencies and other institutions of the criminal justice system which were weakened by state capture and corruption,” the document adds. Immediate implementation of a national plan of action to deal with wanton vandalism of public infrastructure, rising kidnapping, human trafficking, drug peddling, gangsterism, illegal mining, construction mafia, and border security must also be undertaken. The document states that the ANC will lead a campaign against illegal connections to eliminate load reduction, which is placing an added burden on communities. “We will continue implementing the Integrated Resource Plan 2019 which includes the procurement of over 18 000 MW of new generation capacity. “This includes ensuring investment resources mobilised through the Just Energy Transition Investment Plan are used to speedily upgrade Eskom’s transition network to facilitate entry of new generation capacity. “We have also resolved to reduce our carbon emissions and that this transition must be just and inclusive and it must assure the welfare of those workers, communities and industries most affected by the transition. “Just transition plans that address the interests of workers and communities must be developed for all sectors of the economy and regions of the country, particularly for the most affected provinces like Mpumalanga,” the document adds.