PERTH (miningweekly.com) – A number of resources companies have contributed to flood relief efforts in the Kimberley region of Western Australia following heavy rainfall associated with Ex-Tropical Cyclone Ellie. Mining major Rio Tinto has donated A$2-million to Lord Mayor's Distress Relief Fund to support Kimberley communities left devastated by the catastophic flooding event, with employee donations to the fund also being matched dollar-for-dollar by the company. “With our strong connection with the Kimberley region we want to help those suffering from the worst floods in Western Australian history,” said iron-ore CEO Simon Trott. “For more than 50 years our people have been helping to build thriving and resilient communities across Western Australia. Rio Tinto employees will be devastated for the people and communities in the Kimberley region and we will also be matching their donations. “We are also working with our community partners and stakeholders in the Kimberley to see what further assistance we can provide to make a positive contribution on the ground.” US energy major Chevron will donate A$1-million to emergency flood relief and recovery efforts, and will also match employee donations dollar-for-dollar. Chevron Australia acting MD Kory Judd said the company is committed to supporting Australian communities, particularly in times of need. “We have all seen the devastation that has occurred in the Kimberley from the flooding, and our thoughts are with the community members who have been impacted, especially the regional, remote and indigenous communities who have been severely affected or become isolated. “On behalf of the company and our workforce, I would also like to send my gratitude to the community members and emergency workers who have courageously battled treacherous conditions to protect lives and property. “We hope our contribution can aid in the provision of immediate emergency relief as well as support what is expected to be a significant recovery for the region as communities seek to rebuild and reconnect with country.” Diversified miner South32 has also contributed A$300 000 towards the Lord Mayor’s Distress Relief Fund and was matching employee donations. CEO Graham Kerr said that the unprecedented floods had a devastating impact on communities in the Kimberley and caused major damage to local homes, businesses and infrastructure. “The thoughts of everyone at South32 are with those who have been affected. We also express our gratitude to emergency services personnel and volunteers who have worked tirelessly to assist impacted communities since the floods first hit. “We are proud to make a contribution to the Lord Mayor’s Distress Relief Fund to assist response and recovery efforts during this extremely challenging time.” Ex-Tropical Cyclone Ellie crossed into Western Australia from the Northern Territory on December 28. Since December 30, widespread rainfall totals between 200mm to 500mm have been recorded across the Kimberley region.  Major flooding has occurred along the Fitzroy River to Fitzroy Crossing, reaching record levels of 15.81m.  Major roads and associated infrastructure have been damaged and floodwaters have isolated towns including Fitzroy Crossing and many remote indigenous communities along the Fitzroy River.