PERTH (miningweekly.com) – The Western Australian government this week announced plans to introduce climate change legislation this year to establish a framework for responsible emissions reductions to meet Western Australia's goal of net zero by 2050. This legislation will also formalise the state’s ambitious aim to reduce government emissions by 80% below 2020 levels by 2030 and will provide a framework for the state's climate change response and give industry, business and investors certainty and stability. The legislation will create statutory requirements for the state government to set interim emission reduction targets and develop strategies to adapt to the impacts of climate change. It meant Western Australia would have clear and necessary policies to reduce emissions, helping to mobilise private sector capital for the net zero transition and enhance climate resilience, said Climate Action Minister Reece Whitby. "Climate change is the greatest challenge of our lifetime. We need to take decisive action this decade. This legislation will help accelerate our transition to net zero emissions in a responsible and achievable way. "Legislation sends a strong signal about the priorities and leadership of our government.  This includes our commitment to achieving an 80% reduction in state government emissions by 2030. “This will help unlock critical investment in clean energy infrastructure and technologies, ultimately reducing costs for businesses,” said Whitby. “We're taking significant action to combat climate change. A new adaptation strategy will be released this year to help enhance our state's climate resilience and ensure adaptation is reflected in government decision-making." The legislation will ensure accountability and transparency, requiring the Minister for Climate Action to report annually to Parliament on Western Australia's net emissions and progress towards reduction targets. Comments attributed to Acting Energy Minister Sue Ellery said the legislation would drive investment in clean energy infrastructure and technologies while helping position the state as a green energy powerhouse. “It will also enhance business confidence and stimulate change to accelerate Western Australia's clean energy switch.” The government this week also drafted a legislative framework for the transport and geological storage of greenhouse gases in Western Australia. The Petroleum Legislation Amendment Bill (B) 2023 seeks to introduce a greenhouse-gas (GHG) legislative regime similar to the Commonwealth Offshore Petroleum and Greenhouse Gas Storage Act 2006. These new provisions include property rights for GHG storage formations; acreage release for GHG exploration titles; retention leases and injection licences; and injection, site closure and long-term liability requirements. Further proposals include the ability to regulate direct access to suitable storage sites under specific circumstances, and to allow for the transport of GHGs by pipelines to depleted petroleum reservoirs and other potential storage sites. The Bill, which was previously known as the Petroleum Legislation Amendment (Greenhouse Gas Storage and Transport) Bill 2022, proposes amendments to the Petroleum and Geothermal Energy Resources Act, Petroleum Pipelines Act and Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act. A 12-week consultation period will now begin for stakeholders to provide their feedback on the proposed amendments. “The Petroleum Legislation Amendment Bill (B) 2023 is one of many actions the government is taking to support industry as it transitions to net zero emissions by 2050,” said Ellery. “We know the majority of Western Australia's industrial and resources sectors share our decarbonisation ambitions and this legislative reform is an important tool in our efforts. “Not only are the legislative amendments key to decarbonising the industry, but they will also provide the regulatory certainty needed to facilitate investment, job creation and the growth of our state."