Manufacturing company Wärtsilä’s holistic approach builds on the company’s extensive capabilities in power system remodelling and analysis, energy system optimisation and flexible power generation technologies. Through attending this year’s Investing in African Mining Indaba event, the company is hopeful that it will be able to further expand its footprint in the mining industry, while simultaneously helping customers to identify and implement the solutions needed to, for example, decarbonize their power systems. Uncertainty about economic development and geopolitical tensions continued into 2023, which meant that there was intensifying cost inflation, disturbances in supply chains, tightening monetary policies, as well as a challenging macro-environment. This, Wärtsilä says, further challenges the global business environment. In spite of this, and the volatile energy market, the company has been able to grow its order intake, with notable orders for thermal balancing and energy storage solutions. “We are executing our strategy to make Wärtsilä a stronger and a better company. We are making considerable progress in developing solutions to shape the decarbonisation of the energy sector, while moving up the service value ladder and increasing performance-based agreements,” the company says. Its decarbonisation journey, it adds, will “transform industries”. The company’s energy branch – Wärtsilä Energy – specifically, leads the transition towards a fully renewable-energy future, and it continues to help its customers in decarbonisation by developing market-leading technologies which cover future-fuel-enabled balancing power plants, hybrid solutions, energy storage and optimisation technology. This also includes Wärtsilä’s GEMS energy management system – its flexible architecture dynamically adjusts based on market conditions and addresses a critical need for intelligent and adaptable software. Wärtsilä’s track record includes 75 GW of power plant capacity and 110 energy storage systems delivered to 180 countries globally. Wärtsilä emphasises innovation in sustainable technology and services to help its customers continually improve environmental and economic performance. The company has about 17 000 professionals in more than 200 locations across 68 countries. In 2021, the company’s net sales totalled €4.8-billion.