PERTH (miningweekly.com) – Diversified miner Mineral Resources (MinRes) is expected to take delivery of the first batch of Australian-engineered electric Toyota HiLux utes for its mine site operations in April this year. The company on Wednesday announced that it had placed an order with mining industry vehicle supplier and global systems integrator MEVCO, which recently announced a partnership with SEA Electric to electrify Toyota HiLux and LandCruiser utes. From its factory in Melbourne, SEA Electric is converting the vehicles from diesel-powered engines to all-electric using its SEA-Drive power system. The HiLux utes will be fitted with an 88 kWh battery that provides a range of up to 380 km and can be charged up to 80% in less than one hour.

MinRes, which is committed to net zero emissions by 2050, said on Wednesday that it will use the electric utes at its various mine operations across Western Australia, including at the Koolyanobbing iron-ore mine in the Yilgarn.

The addition of the electric utes comes two years after the company took delivery of the first all-electric light truck to roll off the SEA Electric production line. “MinRes has a plan to transition to a low-carbon future and cutting our reliance on diesel is central to achieving this goal. Our MEVCO electric utes are just one of the many ways we’re driving towards net zero and an exciting step in our decarbonisation journey,” said mining services CEO Mike Grey.

“Battery technologies are key to a clean energy future and MinRes is playing a significant role in achieving this global goal. As the world races towards decarbonisation, we are part of the journey because it’s not just good business but the right thing to do.”

The miner is cutting emissions at its mining operations through a variety of technologies, including plans to transition road trains at its Onslow iron project from diesel to electric. At the Wonmunna iron-ore project in the Pilbara, a 2.1 MW solar array and battery system is being installed that will provide 30% of the site’s energy requirements.

MinRes is also supporting the world’s transition to a clean, renewable future by producing high-quality spodumene concentrate and battery grade lithium hydroxide from the world-class Mt Marion and Wodgina mines, in the Goldfields and Pilbara regions respectively.