Consulting, engineering, construction and mobility services company Egis has received the signature of a contract with the government of Guinea to act as technical adviser for the construction of the Simandou iron-ore mining project’s infrastructure. Located 550 km southeast of Conakry, the project includes the construction of a 650 km railway line – the Transguinean – and port facilities, in addition to the mine. The 26-month contract signed between the Republic of Guinea and Egis will enable Guinea to complete this key project for its economic development, while respecting the strictest technical, environmental and good governance criteria. According to studies, the Simandou iron-ore deposit is expected to generate about $7.5-billion a year in revenue and increase Guinea’s yearly gross domestic product by $5.6-billion. The overall yearly fiscal contribution of Simandou is estimated to reach more than $1.5-billion. It is also estimated that the project will create 10 000 direct jobs and more than 100 000 induced jobs, as well as employ more than 3 500 local subcontractors. The development of the Transguinean will boost economic development along the corridor and open up the Guinée Forestière region. For Egis, this project represents an important step in its commitment to sustainable development in Africa, in line with its mission to contribute to the wellbeing of local populations. Egis notes that this is a unique socioeconomic development project for Guinea, which will generate both short- and long-term benefits that will have a lasting impact on the country. Egis transport and territories executive director Régis Dumay says that, with the Simandou project, the company is embarking on an “extremely rich and varied mission” that will mobilise all of the group's expertise for Guinea and for Guineans. “We are aware of the huge expectations linked to this structural project for the country, both in terms of economic benefits and respect for social and environmental matters. We are determined to meet this challenge,” he says. Egis Africa MD Arnaud de Rugy adds that the contract is a strong recognition of Egis’ expertise, as well as that of its partner Setec. “It also illustrates Egis’ recent successes in Guinea and, more broadly, in Africa – a continent where the group has a long-standing presence and where we have great ambitions,” he says.