Testing, inspection and certification company Bureau Veritas is aiming to introduce its solutions for the mining industry at this year’s Mining Indaba, held in Cape Town from February 6 to 9. These solutions, explains VP Southern Africa Gavin Hefer, includes the company’s testing services on metals and minerals during exploration, production and trade. The company is also aiming to introduce its environment, social and governance (ESG) solutions to help organisations achieve net zero. The timing is ideal, considering that the African continent is geared for growth following society’s general recovery from the Covid-19 pandemic, and current and future project investments in health, infrastructure, energy security and government systems are now in full swing. As a business-to-business-to-society organisation, Bureau Veritas managed to respond to the needs of society and developed solutions that helped organisations to manage and restore their business activities, says Hefer. The company’s presence in Africa dates back more than 120 years, and it supports clients in Africa across various industries, including metals and minerals, oil and gas, food, agriculture, building and infrastructure, and more. For more than 200 years, Bureau Veritas has helped its clients improve their performance by offering services and innovative solutions to ensure that their assets, products, infrastructure, and processes meet standards and regulations in terms of quality, health and safety, environmental protection, and social responsibility. Bureau Veritas also helps organisations assess their carbon footprint, identify emissions hotspots, and develop a net-zero roadmap that defines clear actions for reducing emissions. “We support clients to implement and evaluate improvement programmes, and verify their information, enabling companies to communicate transparently about their progress toward net zero. We further help business and society through audits, independent certification, and verification of their efforts to achieving net zero,” Hefer concludes. The Bureau Veritas Group has more than 82 000 employees located in more than 1 600 offices and laboratories around the globe, in 140 countries.