As a member of the Murray & Roberts group of companies, Murray & Roberts Cementation is a world class mining contractor based in Johannesburg and operating throughout Africa. The company has a reputation for introducing the concept of contract mechanised mining to South Africa. This work was traditionally the exclusive domain of mine owners. This Level 1 broad-based black economic empowerment (B-BBEE) company provides a focused range of service offerings, including the design and building of underground mine infrastructure and the specialised contract mining of underground operations. The company’s strong strategic relationships make it the first choice for mining companies, from upfront design to construction and operation. Adding value through operational excellence, Murray & Roberts Cementation leverages its skills base to provide flexibility for mining clients. The company brings world class mining technologies, including best practice remote operation and digitalization, to projects, with globally deployable strategic equipment. The company has sister companies offering similar services across Australasia and the Americas. Known for its efficiency and superior project delivery based on a strong safety record, the company has its own in-house design capability ensuring streamlined and cost-effective constructability. With its reputation as a world class implementer grounded in a detailed understanding of clients’ businesses and needs, Murray & Roberts Cementation harnesses its knowledge and experience to find solutions and solve problems, while applying integrated operational risk management systems. Excellence is engineered into projects by applying a suite of powerful systems. These include managing projects to Project Management Professional (PMP) principles and achieving Zero Harm through the integrated management systems based on ISO 9001:2005, ISO 14001:2015 and ISO 45001:2018. The systems are certified through the internationally recognised certification body which conducts annual verification audits to evaluate compliance. The risk management system is also embedded in the organisation through critical management systems such as its Major Accident Prevention (MAP) programme. The company’s systems also put it at the leading edge of organisational performance in maintenance management, digital information strategy, talent management and performance management.