Canada-based underground mining equipment manufacturer Maclean Engineering has continued to grow, which is evidenced through a large portion of sales now being beyond Canadian borders, and with the company setting up branches in regions where its equipment is working underground. This is a “big part” of the company’s sustainable growth story, says Africa GM John-Paul Theunissen, who adds that after 50 years of operation, “Maclean is used to the cycles of mining industry growth and contraction”. Taking this into account, Maclean’s main objective at this year’s Mining Indaba conference and exhibition is to re-affirm the company’s position as a global company with representation in Africa. For the second consecutive year, Maclean will be showcasing its full electric underground mobile equipment alongside a mining explosives supplier. “It is exciting to be a part of the green alternative offering in African mining, and we hope to attract even more attention during this year’s event which will lead to great future partnerships,” Theunissen comments. He adds that Maclean has “worked closely with customers in Africa to increase safety and productivity, and [the company] aims to meet with senior officials and potential customers from Africa so that it may grow its business on the continent”. As such, Theunissen states that Maclean will largely focus on getting involved in countries where it does not have operational equipment yet, adding that West Africa, in particular, is “showing signs of being a big contributor to the underground mining industry in the near future”. Maclean Engineering’s tagline “Made in Africa, for Africa” is a “reality on the ground” for the company, as it has spent the last half-century building its brand through the quality and specialisation of its products, along with attention to detail and site support. “One thing that never changes is our safety-first mission,” says Theunissen. “In recent years, we have also forged a global leadership position on the frontlines of mining electrification, and with numerous corporate decarbonisation goals already rolled out, and more to follow, this shift will drive the industry transition to diesel-free operations.” Maclean is also investing heavily into research and development infrastructure, including the acquisition of its own underground test facility in Ontario, Canada. It is hoped that this will further the company’s goal of delivering advanced vehicle technology solutions to the mining world.