PERTH (miningweekly.com) – The federal government has launched the consultation process for Australia’s first National Battery Strategy, which it said would be integral to help Australia transition to a decarbonised economy, hit its ambitious emissions targets, foster Australian innovation and support Australian industry. Industry and Science Minister Ed Husic said domestic battery industries will be buoyed by Australian know-how and domestic access to minerals to help power the move to clean energy here and around the world. “Our general approach should be one where if we mine it here, we should make it here. Large-scale uptake and manufacture of batteries will be vital in transitioning to net-zero. New battery capacity will help support grid scale capacity, power our homes, and electrify our transport sector. “We know there is huge demand for energy storage to support the widespread uptake of solar generation by households, business and industry,” Husic said. “Global demand for existing and next-generation batteries is forecast to increase nine- to 10-fold over the next decade. That’s why it is important that we harness the opportunity to become a key player in battery manufacturing and export on the world stage. “Australia has globally significant deposits of essential battery materials and strong local innovation and research capabilities. By drawing on these strengths, Australia can take its place in the profitable global battery supply chain.” Globally, Bloomberg New Energy Finance estimates that 387 GW of new energy storage will be added by 2030, providing an excellent opportunity for Australian battery industries. Bolstering Australia’s battery manufacturing capability presents an opportunity to integrate and diversify global battery supply chains, the Minister said. A joined-up national approach to battery technology will also work to support Australia’s National Electric Vehicle Strategy. “The National Battery Strategy will complement the development of Australia’s new Critical Minerals Strategy to articulate a clear pathway for integrated, end-to-end onshore battery mineral supply chains,” Husic said. “Together, these will provide a clear plan to ensure Australia maximises its economic potential in these fast growing and lucrative markets. The consultations around the Strategy are designed to find ways to get our country manufacturing Aussie batteries. “A coherent, national approach to the development and uptake of emerging technologies won’t just deliver economic growth and jobs, but also help safeguard our national wellbeing,” Husic said. The government will work closely with states and territories, and consult widely with industry, community and experts to shape the strategy and help grow globally competitive domestic battery industries. Engagement on the Strategy will help inform other elements under the Australian Made Battery Plan including creating a Battery Manufacturing Precinct, in partnership with the Queensland government; establishing a Powering Australia Industry Growth Centre to support industry translation of research into local jobs and investment; and supporting 10 000 New Energy Apprenticeships.