Petroleum business company Shell is recommitting itself to the African mining industry with its solutions and products geared towards sustaining the mining industry through the provision of solutions that help mining operations achieve their sustainability goals, while maintaining overall business objectives. Shell services manager Mpho Mokwena adds that the energy and petrochemical group is also reaffirming its commitment to socioeconomic development by investing in the local communities in which it operates. “The sustainability of mining in Africa is dependent on skills transfer and upskilling communities to ensure economic inclusivity,” he comments. Shell has over a century-long presence in Africa, and through its partner, Vivo Energies, has been able to continue supporting the African mining industry and play an integral role as both premier oil company, but also as a corporate citizen and change agent. “We are proud to be part of the African heritage and we continue to extend our footprint by building mutually benefitting relationships,” Mokwena comments. However, like many other global organisations, the war in Ukraine has forced Shell to adjust very quickly and adapt to the challenge. “We were suddenly faced with a consistent shortage of raw materials, and this had a huge impact on the total cost of products and on our customers. Our agility and global footprint allowed us to reduce this impact on our customers by designing technical solutions that helps our customers improve their operational efficiencies and reduce their total cost of operations while maintaining profitability and performance,” Mokwena says. Additionally, Shell’s global strategy for powering progress in mining is focused on accelerating the transition to net-zero emissions and designed to create value for shareholders, customers and wider society. “We are driven to achieve our four main goals: net-zero emissions, powering lives in areas where we operate, respecting and preserving nature, and generating shareholder value,” he concludes.