PERTH (miningweekly.com) – Energy major BP has marked a milestone at its planned renewable fuels project in Kwinana, Western Australia, with the company now progressing with engineering plans. The Kwinana Renewable Fuels project is part of a global multibillion-dollar investment by BP and will see existing refining infrastructure repurposed to produce drop-in fuel products that have the ability over time to support the decarbonisation of aviation and heavy industry, subject to regulatory and State government approvals. Kwinana is one of five biofuel projects that BP has planned globally. It is expected that these projects will produce around 50 000 bbl/d of sustainable aviation fuel (SAF) and hydrotreated vegetable oil (HVO), or renewable diesel, by 2030. The biorefinery is planned to produce SAF and biodiesel from bio feedstocks by 2026. “Kwinana illustrates the power of the Australian economy and its ability to reinvent itself for the energy transition. This project is the first of its kind globally for BP and a first for Australia. It recognises the importance of our Kwinana site and Western Australia in the energy transition, so we’re thrilled to say BP  is progressing with engineering plans for Kwinana,” said BP Australia president and senior VP fuels and low-carbon solutions Asia Pacific Frédéric Baudry. “BP has established, global biogas and biofuel businesses that are positioned in an increasingly supportive environment of rapidly growing demand. “We plan to integrate the SAF and renewable diesel with our current terminal operations, and our future potential green hydrogen project - H2Kwinana.” Western Australian Premier Mark McGowan has welcomed the milestone at the Kwinana refinery, saying the transformational project was a testament to the fact that Western Australia continued to be an ideal investment location. “Initiatives like this bring significant benefits to our state, boost our strong economy and ensure we have a long line of local jobs and work for local businesses into the future,” he said. State Development, Jobs and Trade Minister Roger Cook said it was encouraging to see the rebirth of the Kwinana facility as a renewable energy hub. “Not only will this create jobs, but it will create jobs for the future as Western Australia plays a leading role in the global shift to renewable energy.”