Diversified miner Anglo American has agreed to acquire a 9.9% minority interest in Canada Nickel Company, which owns the Crawford nickel project in Ontario, Canada. Anglo will also provide technology expertise to the Crawford project and has the exclusive right to buy up to 10% of recoveries of nickel concentrate, iron and chromium contained in the magnetite concentrates and any corresponding carbon credits from the Crawford project. Anglo's equity funding will support Canada Nickel's work to complete the necessary permitting requirements to proceed with development of the project. The investment is part of Anglo's approach to expand its nickel product offering with additional battery-grade nickel for use in electric vehicles, complementing nickel production from its platinum group metals mines in South Africa, as well as ferronickel from its nickel assets in Brazil, which is mostly destined for the global stainless steel industry. "As a responsible provider of future-enabling metals and minerals to our customers, we are committed to supporting our industry in increasing the availability of critical materials that will underpin the success of the energy transition, and to do so sustainably," says Anglo marking business head Peter Whitcutt. Anglo will apply its FutureSmart Mining technologies to ore samples from Canada Nickel, with the aim of assessing opportunities to improve processing recoveries and reduce the project's overall energy, emission and water footprint. "Our in-depth product knowledge and portfolio of innovative technologies have the potential to provide a value-enhancing contribution to the development of the Crawford project, with the objective of unlocking additional supply of nickel to meet the world's growing demand for battery technology for electric transport," says Whitcutt. Located in a tier-one mining jurisdiction in Ontario, with optimal support infrastructure, the Crawford project is one of the largest undeveloped, bulk tonnage nickel sulphide resources in the world. If brought into production, the project is expected to play an important role in expanding the available supply of battery-grade nickel, Anglo states. The completion of the private placement and related offtake and technology agreements is subject to customary closing conditions, including the approval of the TSX-V and is targeted to close on or about February 28.