Platinum group metals miner Impala Platinum (Implats) reports that independent nonexecutive director Peter Davey, who served on the board since June 2013, passed away on February 7 after a short illness. Implats says Davey added immense value to the company during his tenure, having been a mining engineer with substantial production experience in South Africa's deep-level platinum and gold mining industries. After completing his BSc in Mining Engineering from Cardiff University in 1976, Davey joined Implats – his first job, as a graduate mining engineer in Rustenburg. With more than a decade of experience in the South African mining industry, and after completing his MBA at the University of the Witwatersrand, Davey started his second career in the finance industry. He worked at major investment banking and audit institutions based in Johannesburg, South Africa, and London in the UK, for more than 25 years, specialising in mining equity research and sales. Davey had in-depth knowledge and a broad personal network across both the South African and global mining industry and financial sector and was highly respected by the executives in the global mining companies he researched and the investor base he advised. He remained abreast of societal and industry challenges, an avid reader and regular participant at industry conferences and forums. His understanding of the challenges facing the mining sector, and the need to seek balance and drive value for all stakeholders, was widely acknowledged. The leadership and management skills he developed in the mining industry served him well in leading teams at various financial institutions and he was a trusted and often sought out sounding board for his peers. “Davey’s relationship with Implats extended beyond his invaluable contribution to the board and his input as a member of several committees during the time, including audit and risk; nominations, governance and ethics; strategy and investment; and health, safety and environment,” Implats comments. Chairperson Thandi Orleyn says Davey embodied an unparalleled combination of technical and financial experience, impeccable ethics, deep compassion and a personal commitment to driving Implats to excel in the broader aspects of social and environmental performance. “We will miss his diligence and our debates and we mourn the loss of a deeply respected and trusted colleague,” she says. CEO Nico Muller says Davey was a key source of support and guidance for him over the past five years and that his knowledge and foresight had helped shape the repositioning of Implats. “He was tough, but always fair, and fiercely loyal to our people and company. I will miss his wise counsel, irreverent sense of humour and friendship. We mourn the passing of a great mind and a long-serving and loyal supporter of the mining industry,” says Muller. Davey is survived by his wife Jo, his children Richard and Kate, and their families. “The board and management team expresses their heartfelt condolences to Peter’s family, friends and colleagues on this profound loss,” Implats says in a statement.