At this year’s Investing in African Mining Indaba, software company acQuire Technology Solutions will be hosting a booth for the first time in a number of years, which the company says gives it “an excellent opportunity to reconnect and engage with existing customers who are attending the event”. The company also intends to showcase what is new across its software solutions, which it says are ideal for those working with environmental, geological or social performance data, as the solutions can help to manage data more efficiently and make smarter business decisions. acQuire develops leading information management services so that customers can “make profitable business decisions using data assets they trust”. “Our focus isn’t just technology. It’s on combining people, process and technology to translate data into business-critical intelligence,” the company explains. In 2018, acQuire joined Vela Software and has started expanding its information management solutions to incorporate environmental and social performance data. It’s EnviroSys software, meanwhile, is a quality and compliance-focused software to efficiently capture, validate, monitor, analyse and report any type of environment-related data. At the core of EnviroSys is a “highly flexible model” allowing for the management of quality across an array of different monitoring aspects, including air quality, groundwater, surface water, potable water, meteorological, noise, waste, emissions, soil, land disturbance and rehabilitation activities. Also included in the acQuire suite of products is Insite, which is a flexible, cloud-based social performance management platform that enables users to streamline the collection and validation of social sustainability data. These products are all built on frameworks to ensure data accuracy, which leads to compliance. The company’s suite of products also includes  GIM Suite, which enables a smarter, more streamlined way to capture, manage and deliver geoscientific observations and measurements for a range of commodities and a variety of domains. “From a governance perspective, you have a chain of custody – a built-in auditing process. It tracks how you’re collecting data, how you’re storing it, and how you’re sharing it with third parties. The underlying architecture aligns with the legislative requirements of the type of data they’re managing – geological data for GIM Suite, environmental data for EnviroSys, and social performance data for Insite,” the company explains. FORWARD FOCUS Following the global pandemic, acQuire is starting to see an increased buoyance in the industry. “We are bouncing back to pre-Covid levels of activity in our business, and we’re experiencing more energy and focus in our teams. We’re seeing more confidence in our customers and are receiving a lot more enquiries for both of our current products, GIM Suite and EnviroSys,” the company enthuses. Its aim is to continue to grow its customer base across its products. “GIM Suite is our flagship geological data management product and has been used in African mining businesses for years, however, there are still companies we are educating on the value of their geological data and how managing it more efficiently has a snowball effect for downstream processes. Quality, trustworthy data is key in the mining industry now and into the future. With more and more data coming from a growing number of sources, it’s even more critical to have the people, processes, and technology in place to manage this,” the company concludes.