PERTH (miningweekly.com) – Green energy developer Fortescue Future Industries (FFI) has joined a consortium of six international businesses to bring zero-emission aviation to New Zealand. The Hydrogen Consortium’s vision is to support the country to pioneer the commercial deployment of green hydrogen-powered aircraft. FFI joins aerospace leader Airbus, airline Air New Zealand, next generation energy company Hiringa Energy, liquid hydrogen solution pioneers Fabrum and New Zealand’s Christchurch Airport in the consortium. FFI CEO Mark Hutchinson said the coming together of such innovative organisations marked a significant moment in the pursuit of fossil fuel-free air travel. “FFI is a global green energy and technology business that will bring to the consortium its knowhow in mega-scale renewables and zero-emissions green hydrogen production and delivery,” Hutchinson said. “We are on a mission to eliminate fossil fuels, including from the aviation industry, and green hydrogen is the key to achieving this. Green hydrogen and green energy is the practical, implementable solution we all need now and we must race to deliver it at scale. “The consortium members all have extraordinary expertise in and commitment to the decarbonisation of air travel and together we believe we can develop a pathway to New Zealand becoming a global trailblazer in this pursuit.” Airbus is working to develop and put into service the world’s first hydrogen-powered commercial passenger aircraft by 2035. In close cooperation with its partners, Airbus will factor in aviation’s requirement for hydrogen in New Zealand. Using its hydrogen hubs at airports concept, Airbus will engage with aviation and non-aviation players to perform a complete assessment of energy supply needs to enable the operation of hydrogen-powered aircraft. Airbus VP of the ZEROe Ecosystem Karine Guenan said the journey to sustainable aviation requires an entire ecosystem to be put into place, one that will involve key players from a variety of sectors. “The consortium we are building brings together a number of pioneering partners with a common interest: to make hydrogen-powered aviation in New Zealand a reality.” Christchurch liquid hydrogen solutions company Fabrum recently designed the hydrogen-powered technology for the Emirates Team New Zealand chase boat (Chase Zero) and has developed lightweight liquid hydrogen fuel tank technology for aviation use. Hiringa Energy for its part is a pioneering green hydrogen developer, producer and supplier. It is constructing key infrastructure to support New Zealand’s transition to green hydrogen in multiple transport sectors including aviation, marine and heavy road transport. Hiringa’s first four production and high-capacity refuelling stations are coming online in 2023, with nationwide expansion planned from 2024. Over the next six months the partners will work together to design a hydrogen ecosystem for aviation in New Zealand. The first phase will focus on research, which will be completed by the end of 2023. The consortium will develop a vision for hydrogen aviation in New Zealand, examine the hydrogen supply chain and its challenges, assess the local aviation market’s projected hydrogen needs to 2050, and develop a pathway of policies, regulations and incentives to promote the development of hydrogen aviation. The second phase will focus on whether hydrogen aircraft test flights can be held in New Zealand. Air New Zealand has two ambitious goals: to fly its first commercial demonstrator flight from 2026 and begin replacing its Q300 Turboprop fleet from 2030 with low emission aircraft. The airline’s chief sustainability officer, Kiri Hannifin, said the consortium’s work will be important to Air New Zealand achieving those ambitions. “To fly hydrogen-powered aircraft in New Zealand we will need an aviation ecosystem that can support it. “The Hydrogen Consortium brings together energy, aircraft, airline operator and airport expertise with the aim of bringing this to life. We can’t wait to see what we can achieve together,” said Hannifin.