Aim-listed Galileo Resources has received the results of an initial inferred mineral resource estimate for the Luansobe copper project, in Zambia, completed by independent consultants Addison Mining Services. Galileo holds a 75% interest in the project. Inferred mineral resources are reported in accordance with the Joint Ore Reserves Committee Code 2012 edition. This includes about 5.8-million tonnes gross at 1% total copper above a cut-off grade of 0.25% total copper for 56 000 t of contained copper, potentially amenable to openpit mining; and about 6.3-million tonnes gross at 1.5% total copper above a cut-off grade of 1% total copper for 97 000 t of contained copper, potentially amenable to underground mining. Additionally, there is a three-million- to seven-million-tonne gross exploration target with grades in the region of 1% to 1.5% total copper at depths of between 100 m and 300 m in an underexplored area of the licence where further drilling may serve to convert this conceptual target to a mineral resource. Detailed metallurgical test work has already started on a 60 kg sample of drill core to determine the optimised processing flow sheet, which may contribute to the upgrade of the mineral resource classification. Tendering for mining contractors can begin once an optimised block model is available as part of general project planning work. “We are very pleased with the outcome of the Luansobe drill programme and the resultant tonnage and grade estimate in our maiden inferred resources. We will now continue the process of optimising a block model and openpit planning during the current quarter as a basis for engagement with potential contractors to quote for openpit mining. “The timing of mining startup will be subject to, among other matters, the ongoing feasibility assessment, completion of mining and processing agreements, along with necessary project permitting,” comments chairperson and CEO Colin Bird. “Samples of drill core have been sent to a metallurgical testing laboratory and are being assessed for amenability to upgrade for processing elsewhere or construction of an on-site plant. The results appear to be capable of supporting a ten-year 600 000 t/y project, which would represent a significant operation, well timed due to the predicted shortage of copper supplies,” he says.